---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "The Digital Age: What Will Become of Future Generations?"
date: 2017-10-19
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---

Today, people use electronical devices, whether they are computers, smartphones, or machines, for everything. In Nicholas Carr’s “The Great Forgetting”, he quotes:
Doctors use computers to make diagnosis and to perform surgery. Wall Street bankers use them to assemble and trade financial instruments. Architects use them to design buildings. Attorneys use them in documentary discovery. And it’s not only professional work that’s being computerized. Thanks to smartphones . . . we depend on software to carry out many of our everyday routines. We launch apps to aid us in shopping, cooking, socializing, even raising our kids. We follow turn-by-turn GPS instructions. We seek advice from recommendation engines on what to watch, read, and listen to. We call on Google, or Siri, to answer our questions and solve our problems.

These devices have already begun to run our lives, causing people to depend on them for survival. Being the fastest and easiest solution, people rush to a machine to do their work and solve their problems. The short-term reward is so tempting that they don’t think twice about what they’re sacrificing in return—independence (from computers). Because of its convenience and efficiency, people are becoming too reliant on technology, making them shallow and lazy. 

Cathleen Norris, a professor of Learning Technologies at the University of North Texas exclaims, “The Internet is just a roadway. But with mobile devices in the palms of their hands, all children, rich or poor, can hop onto that roadway to find answers to their own questions”. Although this is true, what happens when children become too dependent on their mobile devices? Today, there’s pretty much an app for everything. So, my phone is not just a phone; it’s my calculator, my camera, my flashlight, my clock, and so on. What’s the use of carrying around bulky items when there’s an app for it? For example, I can’t remember the last time I’ve seen an actual map. Nowadays, people type in their destination on GPS or Google Maps, and off they go. It’s that simple; there’s no need for the hassle of flipping open a thirty-six by thirty-six inch map that covers over half of the car window. Pretty soon the map will be so antique that the only glimpse children of future generations hear of it will be on Dora the Explorer. When driving, it’s sad to say, but without my phone I’d be lost—literally. I wouldn’t know what to do or where to go. Worst-case scenario, my car would run out of gas, and I’d be stranded on the side of the rode in the middle of nowhere. And so commences the beginning of a horror film.

One may argue that humans have been using tools to aid them with work since the beginning of time with the wheel, abacus, and feather quill pen. However:
Automation is different now. Many software programs take on intellectual work – observing and sensing, analyzing and judging, even making decisions – that until recently was considered the preserve of humans. That may leave the person operating the computer to play the role of a high-tech clerk—entering data, monitoring outputs, and watching for failures. (Carr) 

Therefore, rather than priming thought and action, software is turning people into observers and overseers of the computer. Is the future of the world resulting to the movie, WALL-E, where the people become fat due to the unbalanced ratio of eating to exercising (because of the chairs they sat in twenty-four hours a day seven days a week), where technology helps a person carry out everyday tasks they themselves can’t accomplish, and where robots will eventually attempt to take over the world? Let’s hope not.

Since technology’s advances keep growing at such a significant pace nowadays, there’s no telling what the future holds. Elias Aboujaoude, psychiatrist and researcher at Stanford University says, “The digital trend is moving us toward more superficiality . . . Our ability to focus is compromised, which is one reason we love Twitter. But Twitter, in turn, further compromises our mental processing power, making us crave even speedier, less complex tools”. The wagon was replaced with the car, the typewriter was replaced by the computer, and the letter was replaced by the telephone. All of these models have one thing in common—speed. The way people crave quicker, more efficient tools as an addiction. They don’t want it anymore; it becomes a necessity in their lives. 

As smart as people are with their ability to create such technologies, they choose to use their brilliance to off-load work to computers while they lounge around. William Badke, author of “How Stupid is Google Making Us?” states that “A further form of stupidity, closer to home, is the stupidity of otherwise bright people who are lazy with their brains”. It’s true; people are brilliant, but when a chance to take a short-cut appears, they snatch it up in a second. Technology just so happens to be the perfect short-cut. People don’t have to exert too much time and energy into using it and it gets the job done. At first, it may seem to be a flawless solution in problem-solving, but once a person becomes too dependent on technology, they become lost without it. So, in response to Nicholas Carr’s “Is Google Making Us Stupid?”, computers may not be making people stupid, but the dependence on such computers is making people shallow and lazy.
